# ADR 4: Environment Variables and Credentials

## Context

To ensure that a development or production environment is: 
- Easy to reproduce an,
- Secure

an environment system should be used to specify environment specific
variable that that the application would require. 

This ADR is based on the practices of the PHP [Laravel
Framework](https://laravel.com/docs/master/configuration).


## Decision

### Brief
An environment is stored in a `.env` file, it is important that this file
is NOT tracked by version control; as such it should be added to
`.gitignore` or similar.

### Description
Common environment variables of concern:
- Type of environment `APP_ENV`: either `production` or `dev`
- Server port `APP_PORT`: the port number. Some recommendations are `80`
  for HTTP, `433` for HTTPS, or `3000` for development.
- Database Server configuration`DB_<VARIABLE>` (MongoDB, MySQL, etc.):
    - Port `DB_PORT`: the database server port
    - Hostname `DB_HOST`: the hostname or IP address of the database
    - Username `DB_USER`: Database server username credential
    - Password `DB_PASSWORD`: Database server password credential

There are other environment variables such as third-party API credentials,
and and E-mail server configuration variables, and variables to set the
state of of Logging. Hence when applicable these should be used.

See [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) for NodeJS integration and
and formatting of the `.env` file.

### Example .env file (.env.example)
When a change is made to the environment file, the change should also be
applied to a demonstration file named `.env.example` so that other
developers may understand the application's environment variables and how
to configure them.

The `.env.example` file takes the same form as the .env

## Status: Approved

## Consequences

All server configurations such as port number should be included in the
environment file, with appropriate descriptive comments above the
environment variable's declaration. All database configurations should be
included in a similar manner. The `APP_ENV` variable must be set to `dev`
for the development environment. This follows that any debug comments or
info should only be displayed when the `dev` environment is set. 

### CI/CD Deployment
The `.env` script should be generated upon deployment by making use of
credential managers found in CI/CD delivery agents.

The `APP_ENV` should be set to `production`, and as such the application
should show minimal to no debugging messages, should log faults
extensively, and should not reveal any credentials or error information
that could compromise the data integrity stored on the server.