# ADR 8: Security of data and cookie policies

## Context
Due to the storing of user data and certain routes not being able to be accessed without an account some security features have to be implemented. As per ADR 6 the site is only allowed to be accessed with an account hence there has to be some protection for unautorized routes without having the user login for each redirect. Furthermore, if user data is able to be accessed it is important passwords are not stored in the open. It is also better practice privacy and security wise that only the user knows their password.

## Decision
- User passwords are to be hashed upon account creation.
- Cookies will be used to store a randomly generated token along with the username to allow for transition between routes. Tokens are also hashed in the database for increased security. This also means users do not have to login each time they enter the site so long as the cookie is not expired enhancing the user experience.
- As a consequnce of using cookies if someone has access to the cookie it is important that the user is able to change account details securely. For this the password should be given and validated with any change of user details.
- No unnecessary information such as email or phone number is stored as this causes unnecessary risks considering the application.
- As a result of the above point usernames have to be unique. This is enforced using some Mongodb properties.

## Status: Accepted

## Consequences
As a consequence of using the cookies to validate which routes are accessible this may cause slight delays in access time. Furthermore, as a consequence of the authentication, the user model can be injected into the request object to be used after the middleware hence users only recieve data relevent to them.